Our theme scripture today is 1 Timothy chapter 4 and verse 16, and it contains the phrase,
pay constant attention to your teaching. Now, we may read that often, it rolls off the tongue,
but are we doing it? I know in preparing this, preparing this morning worship, I had asked myself
the same question, what am I doing to actively pay constant attention to my teaching? Well, the answer
was sobering. In these, especially during these last two years, we may have lost some focus,
but for brothers, perhaps we've not had an opportunity to prepare as many new talks,
because of not having normal assemblies or conventions, or perhaps we've fallen into the habit
of just reading our notes right off the screen, like a manuscript, when giving a talk on Zoom,
and thus have drifted away from working off of an outline. Or for all of us,
perhaps our ministry has fallen into a bit of a routine, we're just letter writing,
and leaving messages on machines. Well, even in these unique times, we need to pay constant
attention to our teaching. Now, more than ever, we need to help others to build faith in Jehovah,
in His Son, and in His organization. So with that in mind, let's consider two points that can help us
give attention to our teaching. The first is meditating on Jehovah's perfect example,
and the second is using tools that can help us teach like Jehovah does. So let's look at our
first point. Look at Jehovah's example. As we know, he sets a perfect example of what it means
to be a teacher. We may think of the scripture in Isaiah chapter 48 and verse 17, and let's
read that together, Isaiah chapter 48 and verse 17, this is what Jehovah says,
your repurchaser, the Holy One of Israel, I Jehovah, am your God, the one teaching you
to benefit yourself, the one guiding you in the way you should walk. He teaches, and he guides.
Now, we can meditate for hours on Jehovah's perfect example of how he teaches, how he guides,
how he reaches hearts. We may think of how he corrected the thinking of ones like Job and Jonah
and others when their thinking was way out of line. Now, what did Jehovah do? He could have given
them a long lecture, he could have given them a long dissertation explaining all the ways their
thinking was out of line, but he didn't do that. A few well-chosen questions and a simple
application, which immediately went to the heart, beautiful example of teaching. Jehovah also
uses illustrations and visual effects in his teaching. We may think of the illustration as
record in Isaiah chapter 44, verses 14 through 17. That's where the man cuts down a tree,
takes some of the wood and uses it to burn in the fire, to cook his food, and then he takes another
piece of wood and he carves it into an idol and bows down to it, immediate impact showing the
futility of trying to think that idols can help us. Or what about the visions, the live action videos,
if you will, that he gave to Ezekiel, Daniel, and others, and how that has such a powerful impact on
them? See, Jehovah knows the impact and the power of illustrations and visual effects.
And Jehovah has the perfect example of how to guide someone to come to the right conclusion
and reach their heart. That's an art. He teaches and he guides. So can we work to better imitate
Jehovah's methods? Now, Jehovah also dignifies us when he trains us. How does he do that? Well, that's
part of his aspect of guiding. In fact, notice if you will go back to Isaiah chapter 30, and notice
what it says when speaking of our grand instructor, Isaiah 30, in verse 21, and your own ears will hear
a word behind you saying, this is the way, walk in it, in case you should go to the right, or in case
you should go to the left. Now, if you ever wondered, why is the word behind us? But why isn't in
front of us? It wouldn't be so much easier if Jehovah just told us, just do this and do it this way
and everything will be okay. But he doesn't do that. He dignifies us. See, he gives us instructions,
and then he allows us to set a path to apply it based on our own individuality, our own
creativity. However, he's there. That voice is behind us, the words behind us, to give us a
nudge and further guidance in case we drift too far off to the left or to the right. And why is
that? Well, Jehovah knows that humans benefit the most, that we learn the most, not when just
following a prescribed set of rules, memorizing things, or rather receiving principled guidance,
and then being able to apply the instruction, all the while having somebody to guide us to
mentor us, if you will, in case we go too far to the left or the right.
Well, are we giving attention so that we better imitate Jehovah's methods of teaching and guiding?
Well, what can help us to do so? Well, that brings us to our second point. At Jehovah's
Organization has provided wonderful tools that really capture Jehovah's advanced methods of
teaching and guiding can help us improve our teaching. Let's just consider two of them.
The first is our beautiful new book, Enjoy Life Forever. And when you think about it, this
publication incorporates the same techniques that Jehovah uses. It includes well-chosen questions,
simple illustrations, visual aids in the form of pictures and videos that reach hearts.
Well, are we using this tool not just to study and help ones come to know about Jehovah,
but to train ourselves to teach more like Jehovah does? See, am I mastering the technique of
drawing out the student? Where do I find I still do most of the talking or fall back into just
question and answer? Now, if we've not done so already, take some time to study the S196,
using Enjoy Life Forever in the Ministry guidelines. It's there on the screen. If it doesn't look
familiar to you, then ask your elders for a copy. And notice what it says in paragraph seven.
It says the publications are designed to promote meaningful discussions. The discussion should be
a natural conversation rather than a formal question and answer consideration of the material.
And you notice the end of paragraph eight, it is best to avoid talking too much.
And at the end of the guidelines is other references that we can use and follow that can train us
further. So is this a good topic for a few of our family worship nights? But what else can we do?
What could we have someone experience join our study and ask them to observe how we're doing?
Do we talk too much? Am I letting the student reason, giving them time to reason and come to the
conclusion on their own? If I don't have a study, can I ask to join somebody else's study and see
how they do it? Can I look for ways to incorporate these techniques maybe when I'm comforting somebody,
or I'm on a shepherding call or during our family worship when training somebody? See,
these are just some examples of how we can use this beautiful new tool, not only in our ministry,
to help ones in the in the territory, but to actively work on our teaching and improve our teaching.
What's another tool we have? Well, we have the beautiful apply yourself to reading and teaching
brochure. And this contains very simple straightforward points of how to imitate Jehovah's methods.
As we go through the table of contents, we see how it explains how we use questions, illustrations,
how we can make main points stand out and many others. And as we remember, this has beautiful
videos, very powerful, simple videos that show the right and wrong way to apply the points.
Well, one was the last time we went through the brochure and watched the videos. For us,
brothers, what specific point am I working on for my next public talk? Can I also give more attention
to my treasures from God's word part, assignment in the midweek meeting? If you look at that,
that part is a beautiful example that trains us on how to prepare a talk from an outline.
How am I doing? Am I taking advantage of that? Can I use these techniques when giving a safety talk
or another talk in my department or for my crew? And as we've gone through that brochure, we know that
in looking at it, we can apply many of these points also in our ministry when comforting others
when witnessing to our relatives and when training others for more responsibility. And see,
we've only scratched the surface, but we get the point. We have many opportunities to improve our
teaching. And how happy we are that Jehovah has raised up a faith on the screen slave to
who continues to provide outstanding tools to help us. We've just considered two of them,
and there are others. As recorded at Hebrews chapter 5 and verse 12, the apostle Paul told the
first century Christians, he said that by now, or as the footnote says, in view of the times,
you should be teachers. Well, how much more so do those words apply to us by now? In view of
the times, we must be teachers. So now it's up to us. May we continue to follow Jehovah's perfect
example of teaching and guiding? And may we fully utilize the beautiful tools provided for us
by Jehovah's organization? Yes, may each one of us do our part and pay constant attention to our
teaching.